this is the secret to life
you're not going to be judged by your
intentions you're going to be judged
entirely by your results and the only
way to get results is to take action
action at the end of the day is the
bedrock of everything it's the bedrock
of a growth mindset it's the bedrock of
success of accomplishment everything
comes back to not what you think but
what you actually
do
make that the absolute core of your
existence that you're not going to be
afraid to fail and you're going to move
forward you're always going to take
action you're going to have a massive
bias towards action you're going to
create momentum in your life when you
start doing that when your reaction to
every situation is to learn by doing
then you're going to become an
unstoppable force but it comes from
recognizing that the most rich data
stream in the world comes from action
if you've embraced that everything is
your fault you are well on your way to
achieving whatever it is that you want
in life now this isn't about blame it's
not about feeling badly about yourself
this is about simply remembering that
you're always in control and by that i
mean you can always make a different
decision and making a different decision
gives you the possibility of having a
different outcome if you're looking to
blame anyone or anything external beyond
yourself you then start playing the role
of the victim so even though you may
have every right to blame somebody else
it doesn't serve you so that's why
you're going to take ownership of
everything you do in your life down to
the last microgram of decision it's all
your fault and from there everything
becomes possible
as henry ford said
when everything seems to be going
against you remember that the airplane
takes off against the wind not with it
the reason this is so important to
understand is that inevitably there are
going to be times in your life where it
literally seems like the world is coming
after you and in those moments
if rather than panic if rather than
letting your mind run away from you
rather than getting bitter or angry or
frustrated if you remember in those
times that forcing yourself to push
through it forcing yourself to find the
opportunity forcing yourself to find the
lesson in that is going to be the very
thing that gives you lift it's actually
constraints it's having restrictions
it's having difficult times those are
the things that allow people to really
find and tap into the thing that's going
to allow them to achieve what they want
to achieve because it's going to push
you and i know that's never fun that's
not what anybody wants to hear but the
reality is
if you want to achieve something great
in your life you've got to be going into
the hard places you've got to be facing
down the difficult things you've got to
be going down that road that is
intrinsically difficult it's untamed
it's wild and in that
in that sense that it's coming after you
in that sense that you've entered truly
hostile territory
in that is the very thing that's going
to lift you up and allow you to do what
other people haven't done that's exactly
why the terrain seems hostile that's
exactly why it seems like things are
crashing down around you
because you ventured into the unknown
but it's only in the unknown that you're
going to be able to find yourself it's
only in the unknown that you're going to
be able to accomplish something that
other people think is impossible
because they only think it's impossible
because no one's ever done it
and as tulia cicero said whatever you do
do with all your might so as you go into
this wilderness of the untamed as you
venture into this dangerous territory
go like a bat out of hell go like you've
got something to prove go with the chip
on your shoulder go knowing that you're
going to face danger go knowing that
you're going to have to stand up for
yourself you're gonna have to fight for
what you believe go knowing that you've
got to get stronger go knowing that
right now
you're not the person you need to be in
order to be successful go
now
knowing that failure is guaranteed
go
now knowing that in that failure you
will learn what you need and by being
willing to face that failure and being
willing to learn from that and putting
all of your energy into getting better
into taking responsibility into focusing
who you want to become but you've got to
do it with everything you've got
anything less
is guaranteed failure
the trouble with not having a goal
is that you can spend your life running
up and down the field and never score
[Music]
and that's where people lose years of
their life
there's so much business and running up
and down the field there's so much sense
of action and accomplishment
that they realize that there's no
objective because they don't know what
they're reaching for they don't know
what their goal is and as deadly simple
as that sounds
step number one
have a goal make it specific make sure
you know the rules of the game you're
playing make sure you know what a win
looks like
in fact that may be the most important
question that you could ask yourself the
most pointed thing that you could
determine in your life
is to know what does it look like to win
once you know what it looks like to win
then you can work backwards then you can
figure out what you need to do to score
then you can figure out the skills that
you're going to need in order to get
great in order to go out and dominate in
order to be better than anyone that has
ever come before you but to do that
you've got to know
what your goal is
and once you have that as dale carnegie
said if you want to conquer fear don't
sit home and think about it go out and
get busy so now you have your goal
now you're telling people what you're
going to do now you're telling yourself
who you're going to become you're
building something up inside of you but
are you actually taking the action are
you actually getting out and doing
something about it
and it is terrifying to me
how people can pacify themselves with a
sense of accomplishment simply by having
a goal simply by telling people that
they're going to do something simply by
fantasizing about what they're going to
accomplish and let me tell you right now
the thing that separates the people who
dream from the people who execute is a
willingness to act and at the end of the
day
nothing is going to stop you not fear
not inability not inadequacy the only
thing that will stop you is failing to
start
failing to start is your mortal enemy
you've got to find a way to get yourself
going you've got to find a way to take
that desire that interest in you and
turn it into a raging inferno something
that's going to get you moving and going
ahead that will trample everything in
its path once you're able to do that
nothing and i mean nothing we'll be able
to stop
as john wayne said
courage is being scared to death
and saddling up anyway
here's the secret
the people that do the most with their
lives the people that seem
the most self-assured the ones that seem
to embody confidence the ones that seem
to define
confidence
they're the ones that had to face down
the most fear they simply didn't linger
in it they faced up they took action and
in action
they began to tame the fear and that's
the most ironic thing about being a
human is the very thing that you're
terrified of doing actually taking a
step into the unknown taking
that
step
is the very thing that will cure the
fear it's the very thing that's going to
suppress that it's the very thing that's
going to give you the confidence because
in that moment all you're trying to do
is process what's around you and your
brain does not have the opportunity to
explore and be afraid at the same time
and when you understand that when you
understand that the ally
that you have
is movement the ally that you have is
momentum the thing that you don't need
to be afraid of is fear because that
will be quelled
by doing something
that will be quelled by facing your fear
that will be quelled by saddling up even
when you are at your most terrified and
as samuel johnson said great works are
performed not by strength but by
perseverance it's facing that fear and
going after it anyway it's falling down
the very thing that you were terrified
of embarrassing yourself in front of
people and getting back up and that's
the key getting back up is all that
matters you're all going to fall every
one of us are going to embarrass
ourselves not once not twice but over
and over and over
if we're lucky
because it means that we tried
it means that we got up it means that we
cured our fear
by taking action it means that we took a
risk it means we put something at risk
it means that we took that fragile part
of ourselves that lives inside that
wants to hide that wants to move
backwards and we ripped it open and we
laid it there and we said what will come
will come and whatever it is
i'm gonna learn from that whatever it is
i'm gonna push through that whatever it
is i'm going to persevere because on the
other side of perseverance
is a sense of self
a sense of confidence a being reborn of
being something new because you built
upon yourself you took that ember of
fear and you turned it into something
powerful because you weren't afraid you
didn't back down you weren't worried
that that would be a permanent state you
understood that it was only a step on a
longer journey and when you can see your
life
as a long journey
and that you know
perseverance is what it demands
then you'll stay the course
then
you'll win
as maya angelou said if you don't like
something change it if you can't change
it change your attitude that's some of
the best advice you're ever going to
hear
at the end of the day you should always
be trying to change the things that you
have the ability to change there are
inevitably going to be things that you
can't change
but you're never helpless you're never a
victim in that moment you still
have the
unbelievable ability to choose to look
at it in a new way to choose to reframe
it and in that reframing you change
everything you don't just change your
own neural chemistry you're not just
changing the way that you feel you're
actually changing the way that you're
going to approach the problem something
that was moments before something that
seemed impossible something that was
breaking your will to continue to fight
with a change in attitude become
something completely different and as
hans selye said
adopting the right attitude can turn a
negative stress
into a positive one
and that game of mental jujitsu is what
it's about that game of flipping
something on its head of turning
something around of seeing it in a new
way
so that you can act
in a new way
is how you make forward progress
understanding that understanding your
need to change your perspective
that's how you begin to get ahead once
you understand your perspective is a
choice it is not objective truth burn
that into your mind it is not objective
truth the world that you see around you
is simply the perspective through which
you see it all of life is a fun house
mirror
and when you acknowledge that when you
understand that you're looking at a
distorted view of the way the world is
you realize that you can adopt a
different distortion you can adopt a
distortion that allows you to see things
more clearly that allow you to see
things in a way that empower you
and that should always be the first step
is figuring out not what is
not what you can change
but instead understanding what you need
to change it to
and understanding that that change comes
from inside you
it isn't a manifestation that you have
to make in the outside world first it's
a change you have to make inside
yourself it is a shift of perspective it
is simply stepping to the side of what
you're used to and how you're used to
seeing things and understanding that in
reframing things you take that negative
and turn it into something that builds
you up
but you've got to choose
you've got to decide
you've got to believe
that you can do it
but once you believe that you can see
things in any way that you need to to
reach your goals your life will change
forever
because you'll actually reach your goals
as helen keller said
optimism is the faith
that leads to achievement
nothing can be done without hope
and confidence
and that's the trick it really is faith
it really is doing something even though
you have nothing in the world telling
you that it's real it's something that
you have to choose to believe in it's
something that is going to allow you to
do incredible things simply because you
believe that you can do them but if you
don't start with that optimistic belief
if you don't start by burning into
yourself by reinforcing over and over
and over in your mind
the things can and will work out that
your efforts are going to be rewarded
to believe to the core of your being
that the harder you work the more you're
going to learn the more you learn the
more you'll be able to do the more
you'll be able to do the more you'll be
able to manifest your dreams
you have to start with that faith
that that's real
will be just as easy to look into the
world and see only the negative things
but once you understand that you can
choose to have faith
that things are going to work that you
can believe in something long before you
have the evidence for it and you can
believe in it because you know that's
how the mind works that's where humans
generate their power they don't generate
it from seeing some evidence of
something in the world we generate our
power by first believing that our
efforts will be rewarded you have to put
that at the center of your being
and as wayne dyer said be miserable or
motivate yourself whatever has to be
done is always your choice
so if you want to do something
recognize there's no obstacle holding
you back other than what you choose to
believe
and if you want to be miserable it's
going to be there for you and if you
want to be empowered it's there for you
if you want strength it is there for you
it's a decision it's something that you
decide to believe in that you can get
strong
and that ultimately is the ultimate
strength to believe that you can
get better to believe that you can
become whatever you want to become so
choose optimism right now choose to let
it fill you choose to feel it to sit in
that sensation that anything you set
your mind to is possible when you allow
yourself to embody that to believe it no
matter what anybody tells you no matter
how many people tell you that you're
stupid you're a failure that you're
never going to do anything that you are
going to believe in yourself
if you can do that if you can choose
that optimism you can go anywhere
because you realize everything you
needed was in you all along
he was simply choosing to believe you
could execute against it
so have
that faith
go out and do it
as matsuo basho said do not seek to
follow in the footsteps of others
instead seek what they sought
[Music]
this is about knowing
not what others have done this is about
not
chasing somebody or replicating somebody
or imitating somebody this is about
figuring out what you want what do you
want and then really growing to
understand that really beginning to form
your own opinion and it doesn't mean
that you don't listen to other people it
doesn't mean that you don't sit at
somebody's feet and learn from them
it simply means that the goal is not
imitation the goal is understanding
[Music]
and when you go into learning something
knowing that that thing has utility that
when you get that skill when you really
understand that thing
what it's doing is giving you a brick
that you're going to be able to build
something with
but remember the goal is the building
the goal is to create something that
didn't exist before and the only way to
do that is to actually understand what
you're doing mimicking the motions of
somebody else
will not allow you to create something
that has never been before it will not
allow you to bring something into the
world that has never before been seen
it will only allow you to replicate
and your goal in life isn't to be a copy
machine your goal in life is to express
yourself to create things that only you
can create that your mind in this time
period with all the unique things that
you've encountered that you've learned
the connections that you've make the way
that you bring things together that's
never ever going to exist again it's all
you uniquely
that's your job in this life is to build
something from that place
but to do that you actually have to
understand what it is that you want
and as erwin mcmanus said
there are few things more powerful than
a life lived with passionate clarity
but that clarity only comes when you
understand it only comes when you take
your time learning to really grasp the
concept to not read a book to tell
someone that you've read it to not
complete a task to check it off a list
the goal is to actually understand how
to use that thing
knowledge isn't power
used knowledge is power putting that to
use to actually do something
understanding it well enough to create
from that thing that's the end goal so
don't worry about what other people
think don't worry about what other books
other people have read don't worry if
you ever make it to the last page of
anything simply ask yourself do i
understand
what i need to understand
to build the life i want to build to
bring to this world the things that i
want to bring
however counter-intuitive however weird
it doesn't matter
if it's a moment of beauty for you and
you understand how to build it build it
that's the greatest joy you're ever
going to experience in life is being
truly and uniquely yourself
but first you have to do the work to
understand who you really are
do that work
as gloria steinem says
the truth will set you free
but first it will piss you off the
reality is if you want to achieve
something great in your life you've got
to be willing to accept who you really
are right now you've got to know exactly
what you're good at and what you're not
and the reason that the truth is going
to piss you off as it's going to hurt
it's going to hurt to acknowledge that
you're not yet who you want to be it's
going to hurt to know that you're not
yet capable of the things that you want
to be capable of and it's really going
to hurt
to know that the things that people say
behind your back the things that they
say to hurt you
that they're actually true
that they're right
they have a point you aren't good at
that thing you aren't as good as you
could be you did embarrass yourself you
have fallen down all of those things are
almost certainly true
but when you can look at those things
when you can stare nakedly at your
inadequacies when you can really stop
and not protect yourself with ego but
protect yourself by knowing that you're
going to learn from where you failed
you're going to learn from the places
you've fallen down you're going to learn
your inadequacies so that you can build
something new
and as michio kaku says
all great ideas come from a picture
you've got to know what you want you've
got to know what that thing is that
you're building towards you've got to
know exactly who you're trying to become
and once you have that crystal clear
vision of who you want to be
it is far easier to acknowledge who you
really are
so you've got to start with that picture
you've got to accept the reality pain
and all but you've got to have that
picture you've got to know where you're
going you've got to know what the skills
are that you need to build in order to
get there and once you do that once you
have that picture and that picture is
your obsession it's the thing you think
about you dream about you put it up on
your wall you tattoo it in your mind you
know exactly
who you're trying to become
if you're honest with yourself about
where you are
and you know exactly where you want to
go
you can go
anywhere
you